Project 7: Learning Quiz Game
A learning/quizzing website game where a host creates the questions and players compete against each other for who can answer the most questions correctly and score the most points.

 

 Vision

 

Learning and quizzing should be fun. This tool can be used for fun gamified teaching, quizzing, or otherwise for teams just to have some fun. A host can generate a game with a list of questions and possible answers; true/false, multiple choice (single or multiple answers). Players join and compete as the host moves through the questions. Players earn points in a combination of answering questions correctly, as well as the speed at which they answer. Optionally, points can be removed for getting answers wrong if desired. Between question rounds, players see how they are doing in score and the scoreboard of top scores is shown when the game is over.

 

What Success Looks Like

 

A host is easily able to generate a series of questions. Players easily join by code/passcode on their phones or desktops. Players are all synchronized as the host moves between rounds (questions) seeing the questions at the same time and submitting their answers. Answer submission has a time limit set by the host. Between rounds (questions), users can see where they place on the scoreboard. Games could include 100+ players for large meetings. In the end, answers can optionally be revealed for review by the players.

 

Details

 

Quickly and easily join games by ID or shared link, with optional passcode
Host moves between questions
Question answering has a time limit for submission
Correct answers earn points, and speed of answer submission earns points as well if correct. Optionally, wrong answers reduce points
Scoreboard between rounds reveals your relative place by score
Scoreboard at the end reveals top players and their scores
Desktop and mobile friendly
 

Features

 

Passcode protected games
Questions can be; true/false, multiple choice (single or multiple options), etc.
Scoreboard
 

Considerations

 

Fun ways for players to customize themselves (i.e. name, icon/avatar)
If a player leaves before the end of the game they are marked as having left early
If a player joins late, they are marked as having joined late
History for host of games hosted
Showing everyone the leaders on the scoreboard, but only privately showing other players their position (i.e. not showing everyone who is doing poorly).
 

References

 

Blooket (https://www.blooket.com/)
Kahoot (https://kahoot.com/)